Gina Cooke: Why is there a "b" in doubt?
なんでdoubtに"b"がおるん？
http://www.ted.com/talks/lang/en/gina_cooke_why_is_there_a_b_in_doubt.html

1.
People often think the word "doubt" spelling is a little crazy because of the letter "b".
人々は"doubt"のスペルに"b"が入ってんのちょっと変だなって思ってる。

2.
Since it doesn't spell a sound, most folks can't figure out what it's doing there.
だって発音しないし、大体の人はそれが何してんのかわかんない。

folks:人々
figure out:理解する

3.
But in spite of what most of us learn in school, sound is never the most important aspect of spelling an English word.
大抵の人が学校で学ぶのに、発音に英単語の綴りは全く重要じゃないのよ。

in spite of:～にもかかわらず
what(接続詞):～なこと
most of us:大抵の人
aspect:～な側面

4.
A word's meaning and history need to come first.
まず、言葉の意味と歴史について話そう。
（「言葉の意味と歴史は初めにくる必要がある」の意訳のつもり）

5.
To doubt means to question, to waver, to hesitate.
疑うということは疑問を持つこと、気持ちが揺らぐこと、ためらうことを意味する。

To (動詞):～すること（不定詞の「名詞的用法」というらしい）
mean to:～を意味する

6.
As a noun, it means uncertainty or confusion.
名詞としては、不確実性や混乱を意味する。

noun:名詞
uncertainty:不確実性
consufion:混乱

7.
The present-day English word "doubt" started as a Latin word, "dubitare".
今の英語の"doubt"はラテン語の"dubitare"が起源なのよ。

present-day:現代

8.
It first moved from Latin into French where it lost both its "buh" sound and its letter "b".
はじめに、"buh"の発音と"b"の綴りが消えたのはラテン語からフランス語に移った時だ。

9.
And then it came into English in the 13th century.
そして、13世紀に英語になった。

10.
About 100 years later, scribes who wrote English but also knew Latin, started to reinsert the "b" into the word's spelling,
大体100年後、英語を書いたやつがラテン語も知ってて、スペルにまた"b"を入れやがった。

11.
even though no one pronounced it that way.
それなのに誰もそのように発音しなかった。

even though:～であるけれども
pronounce:発音する

12.
But why would they do this?
でもなんであいつらこうしようとしたんだろうか？

13.
Why would anyone in their right mind reinsert a silent letter into a spelling?
なんで皆がスペルに発音しない文字を再び入れることを良しとしたんだろうか？

14.
Well, because they knew Latin, the scribes understood that the root of "doubt" had a "b" in it.
んーっと、あいつらラテン語知ってるから、書く人は"doubt"には"b"が元々含まってたのわかってんだよね。

15.
Over time, even as fewer literate people knew Latin, the "b" was kept because it marked important, meaningful connections to other related words, like "dubious" and "indubitalbly," which were subsequently borrowed into English from the same Latin root, "dubitare".
時が経つにつれて、ラテン語を読み書きできる人間が減って、"b"は"dubious"や"indubitalbly"のように、関連する他の言葉と繋がる重要で、意味のある印として残った。

Over time:時間とともに
literate:読み書き

16.
Understanding these historical connections not only helped us to spell "doubt," but also to understand the meaning of these more sophisticated words.

17.
But the story doesn't end there.

18.
If we look even deeper, we can see beyond the shadow of a doubt, just how revealing that "b" can be.

19.
There are only two base words in all of English that have the letters "d-o-u-b": one is doubt,

20.
and the other is double.

21.
We can build lots of other words on each of these bases, like doubtful and doubtless, or doublet,

22.
and redouble, and doubloon.

23.
It turns out that if we look into their history, we can see that they both derive from the same Latin forms.

24.
The meaning of double, two, is reflected in a deep understanding of doubt.

25.
See, when we doubt, when we hesitate, we second guess ourselves.

26.
When we have doubts about something, when we have questions or confusion, we are of two minds.

27.
Historically, before English began to borrow words from French, it already had a word for doubt.

28.
That Old English word was "tweogan," a word whose relationship to "two" is clear in its spelling as well.

29.
So the next time you are in doubt about why English spelling works the way it does, take a second look.

30.
What you find just might make you do a double-take.
